**** Using Kaggle for your Data Science Work.  ***

free, online cloud computing (with some
limitations). So if your computer either gets too hot, takes too long to run, or doesn’t
have enough processing power or memory to run your models, you can use Kaggle’s
kernels to run your code!


Benefits of using Kaggle
It’s free! With a Kaggle account, you can use their servers at no cost to you.
Cloud computing. You can run a model, commit the changes, go downtown, and
pull up your model on another computer. As long as you have access to the
internet, your work can follow you (without using Git)!
GPU. For computationally intensive models, you can use up to 2 cores and 13 GB
of GPU RAM. For those who can’t afford expensive GPUs, why not use Kaggle’s?
Notebook or script. Import your code in a style that you’re comfortable in!
No need to pip install . Kaggle has most python packages already preinstalled
(you can even pip install package that Kaggle doesn’t support).
Dark mode. Because it’s better.


Drawbacks and limitations
It’s not all neural net sunshine and kernel rainbows. First and foremost, Kaggle is
owned by Google. So if you are uncomfortable with Alphabet having your facial
recognition models on their servers, then Kaggle’s kernels might not be for you.
Also, the kernel that runs on your webpage can only run for an hour without user
input. So if you were to run your model and you walk away for more than an hour,
your kernel will stop. You will lose all your outputs and must restart your kernel. You
can overcome this by committing your code. The code will run in a separate kernel
than that of the one that you can see on your webpage. But a caveat of committing is
that the committed kernel’s output can only be seen once the kernel has completely
ran. So if your total runtime is 5 hours, you can’t check on your committed kernel
for 5 hours. And if your code has a fatal error, well you won’t know until 5 hours 🙃

Here are the hardware and time limitations when working with Kaggle:
9 hours execution time
5 Gigabytes of auto-saved disk space (/kaggle/working)
16 Gigabytes of temporary, scratchpad disk space (outside /kaggle/working)

CPU Specifications
4 CPU cores
16 Gigabytes of RAM

GPU Specifications
2 CPU cores
13 Gigabytes of RAM




Getting started with Kaggle
Sign into your Kaggle account
In the top bar, click Notebooks
Then select New Notebook
Select either Python or R
Select the coding style
If you want to use GPU, click Show Advanced Settings, then select GPU on
Then hit Create


The Kaggle Kernel
If you selected notebook style, you should feel right at home a la Jupyter Notebook.
To upload your data, click on the top right on + Add Data . You can select a
preexisting Kaggle dataset or upload your own. Keep in mind, that you are limited to
16GBs of data.
On the right sidebar, you can keep track of your online kernel. The Sessions tab
keeps track of how much computing power you have available. Think of your
Workspace tab as a GUI file structure. If you’re using a Kaggle dataset, your files will
be in /kaggle/input/your-kaggle-dataset . If you’ve uploaded a dataset, your files will
be in /kaggle/input/your-uploaded-data . On the Settings tab, you can change settings
that you’ve previously set.
Now you’re all set! Code away and enjoy your free online notebook. When you’re
done or when you ready to commit, hit the Commit button on the top right. Your
code will run in a separate kernel. Once all your code has been run, it becomes a
version. You can go back to any version or your committed code and see the outputs
(if it ran properly).


If you’re submitting to a kaggle competition, you would then go to your kernel’s
version. On the left side, click Outputs. If you have a .csv output, you will be able to
see it here. Select your .cvs file, and click Submit to Competition.




